cpp/BuildInstructionsWindows.md, before:

# Building Ice for C++ on Windows

This file describes how to build Ice for C++ from sources on Windows and how
to test the resulting build.

ZeroC provides [Ice binary distributions][1] for various platforms and compilers,
including Windows and Visual Studio, so building Ice from sources is usually
unnecessary.

## Build Requirements

### Operating Systems and Compilers

Ice was extensively tested using the operating systems and compiler versions
listed on [supported platforms][2].

The build requires the [Ice Builder for Visual Studio][8]; you need version
4.3.6 or greater to build Ice.

### Third-Party Libraries

Ice has dependencies on a number of third-party libraries:

 - [bzip][3] 1.0
 - [expat][4] 2.1
 - [LMDB][5] 0.9
 - [mcpp][6] 2.7.2 (with patches)

You do not need to build these packages yourself, as ZeroC supplies
[NuGet][7] packages for all of these third-party dependencies.

The Ice build system for Windows downloads and installs the NuGet command-line
executable and these NuGet packages when you build Ice for C++. The third-party
packages are installed in the ``ice/cpp/msbuild/packages`` folder.

## Building Ice for C++

Open a Visual Studio command prompt. For example, with Visual Studio 2015, you
can open one of:

- VS2015 x86 Native Tools Command Prompt
- VS2015 x64 Native Tools Command Prompt

Using the first Command Prompt produces `Win32` binaries by default, while
the second Command Promt produces `x64` binaries by default.

In the Command Prompt, change to the `cpp` subdirectory:

    cd cpp

Now you're ready to build Ice:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj

This builds the Ice for C++ SDK and the Ice for C++ test suite, with
Release binaries for the default platform.

Set the MSBuild `Configuration` property to `Debug` to build debug binaries
instead:

     msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:Configuration=Debug

The `Configuration` property may be set to `Debug` or `Release`.

Set the MSBuild `Platform` property to `Win32` or `x64` to build binaries
for a specific platform, for example:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:Configuration=Debug /p:Platform=x64

You can also skip the build of the test suite with the `BuildDist` target:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:BuildDist /p:Platform=x64

If you want to build all supported platforms and configurations at once, use:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

You can also sign the Ice binaries with Authenticode, by setting the following
environment variables:
 - SIGN_CERTIFICATE to your Authenticode certificate
 - SIGN_PASSWORD to the certificate password

If you want to run the test suite without building the entire source base, use this
command:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:ICE_BIN_DIST=all

The build will automatically install ZeroC's official Ice binary NuGet packages if necessary.

## Building Ice for UWP

The steps are the same as for Building Ice for C++ above, except you must also use a
`UWP` target.

To build Ice for UWP:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuild

To skip the building of the test suite:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuildDist

To build all configurations:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuildDist /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

To run the test suite without building the entire source base:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuild /p:ICE_BIN_DIST=all

## NuGet packages

You can create a NuGet package with the following command:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:NuGetPack /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

This creates zeroc.ice.v120\zeroc.ice.v120.nupkg`, `zeroc.ice.v140\zeroc.ice.v140.nupkg` or
`zeroc.ice.v141\zeroc.ice.v141.nupkg` depending on the compiler you are using.

To create UWP NuGet packages, use the `UWPNuGetPack` target instead:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPNuGetPack /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

This creates `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.nupkg`, `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64.nupkg`
and `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86.nupkg` for Visual Studio 2015 builds or
`zeroc.ice.uwp.v140\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.nupkg`, `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64.nupkg` and
`zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86.nupkg` for Visual Studio 2017 builds.

## Running the Test Suite

Python is required to run the test suite. Additionally, the Glacier2 tests
require the Python module `passlib`, which you can install with the command:

    pip install passlib

After a successful source build, you can run the tests as follows:

    python allTests.py

For the C++11 mapping you need to use the `Cpp11-Debug` or `Cpp11-Release` configuration:

    python allTests.py --config Cpp11-Debug

If everything worked out, you should see lots of `ok` messages. In case of a
failure, the tests abort with `failed`.

## Running the Universal Windows Platform Test Suite

In Visual Studio 2015, open the solution file:

    cpp\msbuild\ice.testuwp.sln

Now select the configuration that matches the settings that you used to build
Ice for UWP.

To run the UWP Test suite application, you can deploy the application using "Deploy
Solution" in the "Build" menu. Once deployed, you can start the application from
the Start Menu by clicking the "Ice Test Suite" icon.

In the test suite application, selecting "uwp" for the Server field allows you
to run tests with TCP and WS protocols supported by the UWP server side.

You can also use C++, C# or Java servers to run the tests, which allows you to
use additional SSL and WSS protocols.

To use servers from C++, C# or Java language mappings, you need to build the
tests for the desired language mapping.

The test controller server is implemented in Java. Refer to the build
instructions in the java subdirectory for information on building the test
controller. Use the following command to start the test controller:

    python scripts/TestController.py

In the "Ice Test Suite" Windows Store application, select the Server language
mapping and Protocol you want to use.

[1]: https://zeroc.com/distributions/ice
[2]: https://doc.zeroc.com/display/Rel/Supported+Platforms+for+Ice+3.7.0
[3]: http://bzip.org
[4]: https://libexpat.github.io
[5]: https://symas.com/lightning-memory-mapped-database/
[6]: https://github.com/zeroc-ice/mcpp
[7]: https://www.nuget.org
[8]: https://github.com/zeroc-ice/ice-builder-visualstudio

Commit message:

Windows UWP build instructions updates

cpp/BuildInstructionsWindows.md, after:

# Building Ice for C++ on Windows

This file describes how to build Ice for C++ from sources on Windows and how
to test the resulting build.

ZeroC provides [Ice binary distributions][1] for various platforms and compilers,
including Windows and Visual Studio, so building Ice from sources is usually
unnecessary.

## Build Requirements

### Operating Systems and Compilers

Ice was extensively tested using the operating systems and compiler versions
listed on [supported platforms][2].

The build requires the [Ice Builder for Visual Studio][8]; you need version
4.3.6 or greater to build Ice.

### Third-Party Libraries

Ice has dependencies on a number of third-party libraries:

 - [bzip][3] 1.0
 - [expat][4] 2.1
 - [LMDB][5] 0.9
 - [mcpp][6] 2.7.2 (with patches)

You do not need to build these packages yourself, as ZeroC supplies
[NuGet][7] packages for all of these third-party dependencies.

The Ice build system for Windows downloads and installs the NuGet command-line
executable and these NuGet packages when you build Ice for C++. The third-party
packages are installed in the ``ice/cpp/msbuild/packages`` folder.

## Building Ice for C++

Open a Visual Studio command prompt. For example, with Visual Studio 2015, you
can open one of:

- VS2015 x86 Native Tools Command Prompt
- VS2015 x64 Native Tools Command Prompt

Using the first Command Prompt produces `Win32` binaries by default, while
the second Command Promt produces `x64` binaries by default.

In the Command Prompt, change to the `cpp` subdirectory:

    cd cpp

Now you're ready to build Ice:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj

This builds the Ice for C++ SDK and the Ice for C++ test suite, with
Release binaries for the default platform.

Set the MSBuild `Configuration` property to `Debug` to build debug binaries
instead:

     msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:Configuration=Debug

The `Configuration` property may be set to `Debug` or `Release`.

Set the MSBuild `Platform` property to `Win32` or `x64` to build binaries
for a specific platform, for example:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:Configuration=Debug /p:Platform=x64

You can also skip the build of the test suite with the `BuildDist` target:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:BuildDist /p:Platform=x64

To build the test suite using the NuGet binary distribution use:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:ICE_BIN_DIST=all

If you want to build all supported platforms and configurations at once, use:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

You can also sign the Ice binaries with Authenticode, by setting the following
environment variables:
 - SIGN_CERTIFICATE to your Authenticode certificate
 - SIGN_PASSWORD to the certificate password

If you want to run the test suite without building the entire source base, use this
command:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /p:ICE_BIN_DIST=all

The build will automatically install ZeroC's official Ice binary NuGet packages if necessary.

## Building Ice for UWP

The steps are the same as for Building Ice for C++ above, except you must also use a
`UWP` target.

To build Ice for UWP:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuild

To skip the building of the test suite:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuildDist

To build all configurations:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuildDist /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

To build the test suite using the NuGet binary distribution use:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPBuild /p:ICE_BIN_DIST=all

## NuGet packages

You can create a NuGet package with the following command:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:NuGetPack /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

This creates zeroc.ice.v120\zeroc.ice.v120.nupkg`, `zeroc.ice.v140\zeroc.ice.v140.nupkg` or
`zeroc.ice.v141\zeroc.ice.v141.nupkg` depending on the compiler you are using.

To create UWP NuGet packages, use the `UWPNuGetPack` target instead:

    msbuild msbuild\ice.proj /t:UWPNuGetPack /p:BuildAllConfigurations=yes

This creates `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.nupkg`, `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64.nupkg`
and `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86.nupkg` for Visual Studio 2015 builds or
`zeroc.ice.uwp.v140\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.nupkg`, `zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x64.nupkg` and
`zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86\zeroc.ice.uwp.v140.x86.nupkg` for Visual Studio 2017 builds.

## Running the Test Suite

Python is required to run the test suite. Additionally, the Glacier2 tests
require the Python module `passlib`, which you can install with the command:

    pip install passlib

After a successful source build, you can run the tests as follows:

    python allTests.py

For the C++11 mapping you need to use the `Cpp11-Debug` or `Cpp11-Release` configuration:

    python allTests.py --config Cpp11-Debug

If everything worked out, you should see lots of `ok` messages. In case of a
failure, the tests abort with `failed`.

## Running the Universal Windows Platform Test Suite

Python is required to run the test suite. Additionally, the Glacier2 tests
require the Python module `passlib`, which you can install with the command:

    pip install passlib

The scripts also require Ice for Python, you can build Ice for Python from [python](../python)
folder of this source distribution or install the Python module `zeroc-ice`,  using the
following command:

    pip install zeroc-ice

You can run the testsuite from the console using python:

    python allTest.py --uwp --controller-app --platform x64 --config Release

If everything worked out, you should see lots of `ok` messages. In case of a
failure, the tests abort with `failed`.

[1]: https://zeroc.com/distributions/ice
[2]: https://doc.zeroc.com/display/Rel/Supported+Platforms+for+Ice+3.7.0
[3]: http://bzip.org
[4]: https://libexpat.github.io
[5]: https://symas.com/lightning-memory-mapped-database/
[6]: https://github.com/zeroc-ice/mcpp
[7]: https://www.nuget.org
[8]: https://github.com/zeroc-ice/ice-builder-visualstudio
