android/BuildInstructions.md, before:

# Building the Ice for Android Test Suite

This directory contains an Android Studio project for the Ice test suite. For
ease of development and testing, this project also builds a subset of the Ice
JAR files. This is not necessary for your own projects as it considerably
complicates the project configuration.

Building [Ice for Java](../java/BuildInstructions.md) is the only way to build
all of the Ice JAR files from source. The JAR files produced by the Ice for Java
build fully support Android. If you prefer, our [binary distributions][1]
include pre-compiled JAR files.

## Build Requirements

### Android Development Tools

Building any Ice application for Android requires Android Studio and the Android
SDK build tools. We tested with the following components:

- Android Studio 2.4 preview
- Android SDK 25
- Android Build Tools 26.0.0 rc1

Using Ice's Java mapping with Java 8 requires at minimum API level 24:

- Android 7 (API24)

If you want to target a later version of the Android API level for the test
suite, edit `gradle.properties` and change the following variables:

    ice_compileSdkVersion
    ice_minSdkVersion
    ice_targetSdkVersion

### Slice to Java Compiler

To build this project you'll need the Slice to Java compiler, which generates
Java code from Slice definitions. The compiler is written in C++. If you have
a suitable C++ development environment, you can build [Ice for C++](../cpp)
yourself. Otherwise, you can obtain the compiler by installing a
[binary distribution][1].

The project's Gradle-based build system will automatically search for the
compiler in this repository and in the default installation directories used
by the binary distributions for our supported platforms.

### Bzip2 Compression

Ice for Android supports protocol compression using the bzip2 classes included
with Apache Ant or available separately from [kohsuke.org]().

The Maven package id for the bzip2 JAR file is as follows:

    groupId=org.apache.tools, version=1.0, artifactId=bzip2

You must add the bzip2 classes to your project to enable protocol compression.

> *These classes are a pure Java implementation of the bzip2 algorithm and
therefore add significant latency to Ice requests.*

## Building the Project

Follow these steps to import the Ice for Android project into Android Studio:

1. Start Android Studio
2. Select Open Project
3. Navigate to the android subdirectory
4. If presented with an "Import Project from Gradle" dialog, select
   "Use default gradle wrapper" and press OK

The Android Studio project contains a `testApp` application for the Ice test
suite. To run the application, select it in the configuration pull down and run
it.

[1]: https://zeroc.com/download.html

Commit message:

Fix (ICE-7486) - Port the controller app to Android

android/BuildInstructions.md, after:

# Building the Ice for Android Test Suite

This directory contains an Android Studio project for the Ice test suite. For
ease of development and testing, this project also builds a subset of the Ice
JAR files. This is not necessary for your own projects as it considerably
complicates the project configuration.

Building [Ice for Java](../java/BuildInstructions.md) is the only way to build
all of the Ice JAR files from source. The JAR files produced by the Ice for Java
build fully support Android. If you prefer, our [binary distributions][1]
include pre-compiled JAR files.

## Build Requirements

### Android Development Tools

Building any Ice application for Android requires Android Studio and the Android
SDK build tools. We tested with the following components:

- Android Studio 2.4 preview
- Android SDK 25
- Android Build Tools 26.0.0 rc1

Using Ice's Java mapping with Java 8 requires at minimum API level 24:

- Android 7 (API24)

If you want to target a later version of the Android API level for the test
suite, edit `gradle.properties` and change the following variables:

    ice_compileSdkVersion
    ice_minSdkVersion
    ice_targetSdkVersion

### Slice to Java Compiler

To build this project you'll need the Slice to Java compiler, which generates
Java code from Slice definitions. The compiler is written in C++. If you have
a suitable C++ development environment, you can build [Ice for C++](../cpp)
yourself. Otherwise, you can obtain the compiler by installing a
[binary distribution][1].

The project's Gradle-based build system will automatically search for the
compiler in this repository and in the default installation directories used
by the binary distributions for our supported platforms.

### Bzip2 Compression

Ice for Android supports protocol compression using the bzip2 classes included
with Apache Ant or available separately from [kohsuke.org]().

The Maven package id for the bzip2 JAR file is as follows:

    groupId=org.apache.tools, version=1.0, artifactId=bzip2

You must add the bzip2 classes to your project to enable protocol compression.

> *These classes are a pure Java implementation of the bzip2 algorithm and
therefore add significant latency to Ice requests.*

## Building the Project

Follow these steps to import the Ice for Android project into Android Studio:

1. Start Android Studio
2. Select Open Project
3. Navigate to the android subdirectory
4. If presented with an "Import Project from Gradle" dialog, select
   "Use default gradle wrapper" and press OK

The Android Studio project contains a `testApp` application for the Ice test
suite. To run the application, select it in the configuration pull down and run
it.

## Running the Test Suite

First start the `testController` application once it has started you can run
the testsuite by using allTest.py script from the build machine.

    cd android-compat
    python allTests.py

This will try to run the testsuite in the connected device, if there are multiple
devices connected to this machine you muset use the `--device` argument to choose
what device must be used

    python allTest.py --device=ZX1C2234XF

You can get the list of connected devices with `adb` command:

    adb devices -l

If you are running the application on an emulator pass the `--androidemulator`:

    python allTests.py --androidemulator --device=emulator-5554

You can also start the emulator images from `allTest.py` scripts:

    python allTests.py --androidemulator --avd=Nexus_6P_API_25 --controller-app

Where `--avd` is set to the Android emulator image you want to use, you can list
the available images names in your host by using `emulator -list-avds`. Images
can be created using Android Studio.

[1]: https://zeroc.com/download.html
