java/BuildInstructions.md, before:

# Building Ice for Java

This page describes how to build and install Ice for Java from source code. If
you prefer, you can also download [binary distributions][1] for the supported
platforms.

## Build Requirements

### Operating Systems

Ice for Java is expected to build and run properly on Windows, macOS, and any
recent Linux distribution for x86 and x86_64, and was extensively tested using
the operating systems and compiler versions listed for our [supported
platforms][2]. Due to the portability of Java, it is very likely that it will
also work on other platforms for which a suitable Java implementation is
available.

### Slice to Java Translator

You will need the Slice to Java translator. ZeroC provides translator binaries
for our supported platforms. For other platforms, you will have to either port
Ice for C++ (which contains the Slice to Java translator), or you will have to
translate your Slice files to Java on a supported platform and then copy the
generated Java files to your target platform.

### Java Version

Ice for Java requires J2SE 1.8 or later.

Make sure that the `javac` and `java` commands are present in your PATH.

The Metrics Graph feature of the IceGrid GUI tool requires JavaFX support. This
feature will not be available if you build the source with a JVM that lacks support
for JavaFX. Alternatively, building the source in an environment with JavaFX
produces an IceGrid GUI JAR file that can be used in JVMs with or without JavaFX
support, as the Metrics Graph feature is enabled dynamically.

### Gradle

Ice for Java uses the [Gradle][3] build system, and includes the Gradle wrapper
version 2.4 in the distribution. You cannot build the Ice for Java source
distribution without an Internet connection. Gradle will download all required
packages automatically. These packages are listed below. Gradle will
automatically download any necessary build artifacts from ZeroC's Maven
repository located at

### Bzip2 Compression

Ice for Java supports protocol compression using the bzip2 classes included
with Apache Ant or available separately from [kohsuke.org]().

The Maven package id for the bzip2 JAR file is as follows:

    groupId=org.apache.tools, version=1.0, artifactId=bzip2

The demos and tests are automatically setup to enable protocol compression by
adding the bzip2 JAR to the manifest class path. For your own applications you
must add the bzip2 JAR to the application CLASSPATH to enable protocol
compression.

> *These classes are a pure Java implementation of the bzip2 algorithm and
therefore add significant latency to Ice requests.*

### JGoodies

The IceGrid GUI tool uses the JGoodies libraries Forms and Looks. The following
versions were tested:

    JGoodies Forms 1.9.0
    JGoodies Looks 2.7.0

The Maven package ids for the JGoodies packages are as follows:

    groupId=com.jgoodies, version=1.9.0, artifactId=jgoodies-forms
    groupId=com.jgoodies, version=2.7.0, artifactId=jgoodies-looks

### ProGuard

Gradle uses [ProGuard][4] to create the standalone JAR file for the IceGrid
GUI tool.

The Maven package id for the ProGuard package is as follows:

    groupId='net.sf.proguard', artifactId='proguard-gradle', version='5.2.1'

### Java Application Bundler

Under macOS Gradle uses the Java Application Bundler to create an application
bundle for the IceGrid GUI tool.

The Maven package id for the application bundler package is as follows:

    groupId=com.oracle, version=1.0, artifactId=appbundler

## Compiling Ice for Java

### Preparing to Build

The build system requires the Slice translators from Ice for C++. If you have
not built Ice for C++ in this source distribution, you must set the `ICE_HOME`
environment variable with the path name of your Ice installation. For example,
on Unix:

    $ export ICE_HOME=/opt/Ice-3.7b0 (For local build)
    $ export ICE_HOME=/usr (For RPM installation)

On Windows:

    > set ICE_HOME=C:\Program Files (x86)\ZeroC\Ice-3.7b0 (MSI installation)

On Windows if you are using Ice for C++ from a source distribution, you must
set `CPP_PLATFORM` and `CPP_CONFIGURATION` environment variables to match the
platform and configuration used in your C++ builds:

    > set CPP_PLATFORM=x64
    > set CPP_CONFIGURATION=Debug

The supported values for `CPP_PLATFORM` are `Win32` and `x64`and the supported
values for `CPP_CONFIGURATION` are `Debug` and `Release`

Before building Ice for Java, review the settings in the file
`gradle.properties` and edit as necessary.

### Building Ice for Java

To build Ice, all services, and tests, run

    > gradlew build

Upon completion, the Ice JAR and POM files are placed in the `lib` subdirectory.

If at any time you wish to discard the current build and start a new one, use
these commands:

    > gradlew clean
    > gradlew build

## Installing Ice for Java

To install Ice for Java in the directory specified by the `prefix` variable in
`gradle.properties` run the following command

    > gradlew install

The installation installs the following JAR files to `<prefix>/lib`.

    glacier2-3.7b0.jar
    ice-3.7b0.jar
    icebox-3.7b0.jar
    icediscovery-3.7b0.jar
    icegrid-3.7b0.jar
    icegridgui.jar
    icelocatordiscovery-3.7b0.jar
    icepatch2-3.7b0.jar
    icestorm-3.7b0.jar

POM files are also installed for ease of deployment to a maven-based
distribution system.

## Running the Java Tests

Some of the Ice for Java tests employ applications that are part of the Ice for
C++ distribution. If you have not built Ice for C++ in this source distribution
then you must set the `ICE_HOME` environment variable with the path name of your
Ice installation. On Unix:

    $ export ICE_HOME=/opt/Ice-3.7b0 (For local build)
    $ export ICE_HOME=/usr (For RPM installation)

On Windows:

    > set ICE_HOME=C:\Program Files\ZeroC\Ice-3.7b0

Python is required to run the test suite. To run the tests, open a command
window and change to the top-level directory. At the command prompt, execute:

    > python allTests.py

If everything worked out, you should see lots of `ok` messages. In case of a
failure, the tests abort with `failed`.

## IceGrid GUI Tool

Ice for Java includes the IceGrid GUI tool. It can be found in the file
`lib/icegridgui.jar`.

This JAR file is completely self-contained and has no external dependencies.
You can start the tool with the following command:

    > java -jar icegridgui.jar

On macOS, there is also an application bundle named IceGrid GUI. You can start
the IceGrid GUI tool by double-clicking the IceGrid GUI icon in Finder.


[1]: https://zeroc.com/distributions/ice
[2]: https://doc.zeroc.com/display/Ice37/Supported+Platforms+for+Ice+3.7.0
[3]: http://gradle.org
[4]: http://proguard.sourceforge.net

Commit message:

Use the term Slice compiler instead of Slice translator in READMEs

java/BuildInstructions.md, after:

# Building Ice for Java

This page describes how to build and install Ice for Java from source code. If
you prefer, you can also download [binary distributions][1] for the supported
platforms.

## Build Requirements

### Operating Systems

Ice for Java is expected to build and run properly on Windows, macOS, and any
recent Linux distribution for x86 and x86_64, and was extensively tested using
the operating systems and compiler versions listed for our [supported
platforms][2]. Due to the portability of Java, it is very likely that it will
also work on other platforms for which a suitable Java implementation is
available.

### Slice to Java Compiler

You will need the Slice to Java compiler. ZeroC provides compiler binaries
for our supported platforms. For other platforms, you will have to either port
Ice for C++ (which contains the Slice to Java compiler), or you will have to
translate your Slice files to Java on a supported platform and then copy the
generated Java files to your target platform.

### Java Version

Ice for Java requires J2SE 1.8 or later.

Make sure that the `javac` and `java` commands are present in your PATH.

The Metrics Graph feature of the IceGrid GUI tool requires JavaFX support. This
feature will not be available if you build the source with a JVM that lacks support
for JavaFX. Alternatively, building the source in an environment with JavaFX
produces an IceGrid GUI JAR file that can be used in JVMs with or without JavaFX
support, as the Metrics Graph feature is enabled dynamically.

### Gradle

Ice for Java uses the [Gradle][3] build system, and includes the Gradle wrapper
version 2.4 in the distribution. You cannot build the Ice for Java source
distribution without an Internet connection. Gradle will download all required
packages automatically. These packages are listed below. Gradle will
automatically download any necessary build artifacts from ZeroC's Maven
repository located at

### Bzip2 Compression

Ice for Java supports protocol compression using the bzip2 classes included
with Apache Ant or available separately from [kohsuke.org]().

The Maven package id for the bzip2 JAR file is as follows:

    groupId=org.apache.tools, version=1.0, artifactId=bzip2

The demos and tests are automatically setup to enable protocol compression by
adding the bzip2 JAR to the manifest class path. For your own applications you
must add the bzip2 JAR to the application CLASSPATH to enable protocol
compression.

> *These classes are a pure Java implementation of the bzip2 algorithm and
therefore add significant latency to Ice requests.*

### JGoodies

The IceGrid GUI tool uses the JGoodies libraries Forms and Looks. The following
versions were tested:

    JGoodies Forms 1.9.0
    JGoodies Looks 2.7.0

The Maven package ids for the JGoodies packages are as follows:

    groupId=com.jgoodies, version=1.9.0, artifactId=jgoodies-forms
    groupId=com.jgoodies, version=2.7.0, artifactId=jgoodies-looks

### ProGuard

Gradle uses [ProGuard][4] to create the standalone JAR file for the IceGrid
GUI tool.

The Maven package id for the ProGuard package is as follows:

    groupId='net.sf.proguard', artifactId='proguard-gradle', version='5.2.1'

### Java Application Bundler

Under macOS Gradle uses the Java Application Bundler to create an application
bundle for the IceGrid GUI tool.

The Maven package id for the application bundler package is as follows:

    groupId=com.oracle, version=1.0, artifactId=appbundler

## Compiling Ice for Java

### Preparing to Build

The build system requires the Slice compilers from Ice for C++. If you have
not built Ice for C++ in this source distribution, you must set the `ICE_HOME`
environment variable with the path name of your Ice installation. For example,
on Unix:

    $ export ICE_HOME=/opt/Ice-3.7b0 (For local build)
    $ export ICE_HOME=/usr (For RPM installation)

On Windows:

    > set ICE_HOME=C:\Program Files (x86)\ZeroC\Ice-3.7b0 (MSI installation)

On Windows if you are using Ice for C++ from a source distribution, you must
set `CPP_PLATFORM` and `CPP_CONFIGURATION` environment variables to match the
platform and configuration used in your C++ builds:

    > set CPP_PLATFORM=x64
    > set CPP_CONFIGURATION=Debug

The supported values for `CPP_PLATFORM` are `Win32` and `x64`and the supported
values for `CPP_CONFIGURATION` are `Debug` and `Release`

Before building Ice for Java, review the settings in the file
`gradle.properties` and edit as necessary.

### Building Ice for Java

To build Ice, all services, and tests, run

    > gradlew build

Upon completion, the Ice JAR and POM files are placed in the `lib` subdirectory.

If at any time you wish to discard the current build and start a new one, use
these commands:

    > gradlew clean
    > gradlew build

## Installing Ice for Java

To install Ice for Java in the directory specified by the `prefix` variable in
`gradle.properties` run the following command

    > gradlew install

The installation installs the following JAR files to `<prefix>/lib`.

    glacier2-3.7b0.jar
    ice-3.7b0.jar
    icebox-3.7b0.jar
    icediscovery-3.7b0.jar
    icegrid-3.7b0.jar
    icegridgui.jar
    icelocatordiscovery-3.7b0.jar
    icepatch2-3.7b0.jar
    icestorm-3.7b0.jar

POM files are also installed for ease of deployment to a maven-based
distribution system.

## Running the Java Tests

Some of the Ice for Java tests employ applications that are part of the Ice for
C++ distribution. If you have not built Ice for C++ in this source distribution
then you must set the `ICE_HOME` environment variable with the path name of your
Ice installation. On Unix:

    $ export ICE_HOME=/opt/Ice-3.7b0 (For local build)
    $ export ICE_HOME=/usr (For RPM installation)

On Windows:

    > set ICE_HOME=C:\Program Files\ZeroC\Ice-3.7b0

Python is required to run the test suite. To run the tests, open a command
window and change to the top-level directory. At the command prompt, execute:

    > python allTests.py

If everything worked out, you should see lots of `ok` messages. In case of a
failure, the tests abort with `failed`.

## IceGrid GUI Tool

Ice for Java includes the IceGrid GUI tool. It can be found in the file
`lib/icegridgui.jar`.

This JAR file is completely self-contained and has no external dependencies.
You can start the tool with the following command:

    > java -jar icegridgui.jar

On macOS, there is also an application bundle named IceGrid GUI. You can start
the IceGrid GUI tool by double-clicking the IceGrid GUI icon in Finder.


[1]: https://zeroc.com/distributions/ice
[2]: https://doc.zeroc.com/display/Ice37/Supported+Platforms+for+Ice+3.7.0
[3]: http://gradle.org
[4]: http://proguard.sourceforge.net
