.TH dumpdb 1

.SH NAME

dumpdb - The Freeze database inspector.

.SH SYNOPSIS

dumpdb [options] dbenv db

.SH DESCRIPTION

The FreezeScript tool dumpdb is used to examine a Freeze database. Its 
simplest invocation displays every record of the database, but the tool also
supports more selective activities. In fact, dumpdb supports a scripted mode 
that shares many of the same XML descriptors as transformdb, enabling 
sophisticated filtering and reporting. Full documentation for dumpdb is 
available online at: 
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.6/ice-services/freezescript/inspecting-a-freeze-database/using-dumpdb

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the Ice version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br 
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-ice\fR
.br
Permit use of the normally reserved prefix Ice for identifiers. Use this 
option only when compiling the source code for the Ice run time.

.TP
.BR \-\-underscore\fR
.br
Permit use of underscores in Slice identifiers.

.TP
.BR \-\-load " " SLICE\fR
.br
Loads the Slice definitions contained in the file SLICE. This option may be
specified multiple times if several files must be loaded. However, it is the
user's responsibility to ensure that duplicate definitions do not occur (which
is possible when two files are loaded that share a common include file). One
strategy for avoiding duplicate definitions is to load a single Slice file
that contains only #include statements for each of the Slice files to be
loaded. No duplication is possible in this case if the included files use
include guards correctly.

.TP
.BR \-\-key " " TYPE\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-value " " TYPE\fR
.br
Specifies the Slice type of the database key and value. If these options are
not specified, and the -e option is not used, dumpdb obtains type information
from the Freeze catalog.

.TP
.BR \-e\fR
.br
Indicates that a Freeze evictor database is being examined. As a convenience,
this option automatically sets the database key and value types to those
appropriate for the Freeze evictor, and therefore the --key and --value
options are not necessary. Specifically, the key type of a Freeze evictor
database is Ice::Identity, and the value type is Freeze::ObjectRecord. 
The latter is defined in the Slice file Freeze/EvictorStorage.ice, however 
this file does not need to be explicitly loaded. If this option is not 
specified, and the --key and --value options are not used, dumpdb obtains 
type information from the Freeze catalog.

.TP
.BR \-o " " FILE\fR
.br
Create a file named FILE containing sample descriptors for the loaded Slice
definitions. If type information is not specified, dumpdb obtains it from the
Freeze catalog. If the --select option is used, its expression is included in
the sample descriptors. Database traversal does not occur when the -o option
is used.

.TP
.BR \-f " " FILE\fR
.br
Execute the descriptors in the file named FILE. The file's <database> 
descriptor specifies the key and value types, therefore it is not necessary to
supply type information.

.TP
.BR \-\-select " " EXPR\fR
.br
Only display those records for which the expression EXPR is true. The
expression can refer to the symbols key and value.

.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-catalog\fR
.br
Display information about the databases in an environment, or about a
particular database. This option presents the type information contained in
the Freeze catalog.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR transformdb (1)
