.TH ice2slice 1

.SH NAME

ice2slice - The Ice to Slice compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

ice2slice [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

ice2slice compiler transforms Slice definitions in (.ice) files used by Ice to Slice definitions in (.slice) files used
by IceRPC. The macro __ICE2SLICE__ is defined during this compilation.

Full documentation for ice2slice is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.7/language-mappings/javascript-mapping/client-side-slice-to-javascript-mapping/ice2slice-command-line-options

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-validate\fR
.br
Checks the provided command-line options for correctness, and does not
generate any code.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2java (1),
.BR ice2slice (1),
.BR slice2matlab (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1),
.BR slice2rb (1),
.BR slice2swift(1)
