.TH slice2cs 1

.SH NAME

slice2cs - The Slice to C# compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2cs [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2cs compiles Slice files to C#. The macro __SLICE2CS__
is defined during this compilation.

Full documentation for slice2cs is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/display/Ice37/slice2cs+Command-Line+Options

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays a help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
.br
Print dependency information to standard output by default, or to the
file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated when
this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-xml\fR
.br
Print dependency information in XML format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-file " " FILE\fR
.br
Directs dependency information to the specified file. The output
format depends on whether --depend or --depend-xml is also specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-validate\fR
.br
Checks the provided command-line options for correctness, and does not
generate any code.

.TP
.BR \-\-tie\fR
.br
Generate tie classes.

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\fR
.br
Generate sample implementation files. This option will not overwrite an
existing file.

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\-tie
.br
Generate sample implementation files using tie classes. This option will not
overwrite an existing file.

.TP
.BR \-\-checksum " " CLASS\fR
.br
Generate checksums for Slice definitions.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2java (1),
.BR slice2js (1),
.BR slice2matlab (1),
.BR slice2objc (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1),
.BR slice2rb (1),
.BR slice2swift (1)
