.TH slice2objc 1

.SH NAME

slice2objc - The Slice to Objective-C compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2objc [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2objc compiles Slice files to Objective-C.

Full documentation for slice2objc is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.6/language-mappings/objective-c-mapping/client-side-slice-to-objective-c-mapping/slice2objc-command-line-options

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br 
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-ice\fR
.br
Permit use of the normally reserved prefix Ice for identifiers. Use this
option only when compiling the source code for the Ice run time.

.TP
.BR \-\-underscore\fR
.br
Permit use of underscores in Slice identifiers.

.TP
.BR \-\-header-ext " " EXT\fR
.br
Changes the file extension for the generated header files from the default h
to EXT.

.TP
.BR \-\-source-ext " " EXT\fR
.br
Changes the file extension for the generated source files from the default
m to EXT.

.TP
.BR \-\-add-header " " HDR[,GUARD]
.br
This option adds an include directive for the specified header at the
beginning of the generated source file (preceding any other include
directives). If GUARD is specified, the include directive is protected by the
specified guard.

.TP
.BR \-\-include-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Modifies #include directives in source files to prepend the path name of each
header file with the directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\fR
.br
Generate sample implementation files. This option will not overwrite an 
existing file.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
Prints makefile dependency information to standard output.

.TP
.BR \-\-checksum\fR
.br
Generate checksums for Slice definitions.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2freeze (1),
.BR slice2freezej (1),
.BR slice2html (1),
.BR slice2java (1), 
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1),
.BR slice2rb (1)
