.TH slice2java 1

.SH NAME

slice2java - The Slice to Java compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2java [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2java compiles Slice files to Java. The macro __SLICE2JAVA__
is defined during this compilation.

Full documentation for slice2java is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/display/Ice37/slice2java+Command-Line+Options

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays a help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
.br
Print dependency information to standard output by default, or to the
file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated when
this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-xml\fR
.br
Print dependency information in XML format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-file " " FILE\fR
.br
Directs dependency information to the specified file. The output
format depends on whether --depend or --depend-xml is also specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-validate\fR
.br
Checks the provided command-line options for correctness, and does not
generate any code.

.TP
.BR \-\-compat\fR
.br
Generate code for the Java Compat mapping. When this option is specified, the
macro __SLICE2JAVA_COMPAT__ is defined during the compilation. If this
option is not specified, the default behavior is to generate code for the
Java mapping.

.TP
.BR \-\-tie\fR
.br
Generate tie classes. (Java Compat only)

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\fR
.br
Generate sample implementation files. This option will not overwrite an
existing file.

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\-tie
.br
Generate sample implementation files using tie classes. This option will not
overwrite an existing file. (Java Compat only)

.TP
.BR \-\-checksum " " CLASS\fR
.br
Generate checksums for Slice definitions into the class CLASS. The given class
name may optionally contain a package specifier. The generated class contains
checksums for all of the Slice files being translated by this invocation of
the compiler.

.TP
.BR \-\-meta " " META\fR
.br
Define the global metadata directive META. Using this option is equivalent to
defining the global metadata META in each named Slice file, as well as in any
file included by a named Slice file. Global metadata specified with --meta
overrides any corresponding global metadata directive in the files being
compiled.

.TP
.BR \-\-list\-generated\fR
.br
Emit a list of generated files in XML format.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2html (1),
.BR slice2js (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1),
.BR slice2rb (1)
