.TH slice2cpp 1

.SH NAME

slice2cpp - The Slice to C++ compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2cpp [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2cpp compiles Slice files to C++. The macro __SLICE2CPP__
is defined during this compilation.

Full documentation for slice2cpp is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/latest/language-mappings/c++11-mapping/slice2cpp-command-line-options

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
.br
Print dependency information to standard output by default, or to the
file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated when
this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-xml\fR
.br
Print dependency information in XML format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-file " " FILE\fR
.br
Directs dependency information to the specified file. The output
format depends on whether --depend or --depend-xml is also specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-validate\fR
.br
Checks the provided command-line options for correctness, and does not
generate any code.

.TP
.BR \-\-header-ext " " EXT\fR
.br
Changes the file extension for the generated header files from the default h
to EXT.

.TP
.BR \-\-source-ext " " EXT\fR
.br
Changes the file extension for the generated source files from the default
cpp to EXT.

.TP
.BR \-\-add-header " " HDR[,GUARD]
.br
This option adds an include directive for the specified header at the
beginning of the generated source file (preceding any other include
directives). If GUARD is specified, the include directive is protected by the
specified guard.

.TP
.BR \-\-include-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Modifies #include directives in source files to prepend the path name of each
header file with the directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\-c++11\fR
.br
Generate sample implementation files for the C++11 mapping. This option will
not overwrite an existing file.

.TP
.BR \-\-impl\-c++98\fR
.br
Generate sample implementation files for the C++98 mapping. This option will
not overwrite an existing file.

.TP
.BR \-\-checksum\fR
.br
Generate checksums for Slice definitions.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2java (1),
.BR slice2js (1),
.BR slice2matlab (1),
.BR slice2objc (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1),
.BR slice2rb (1),
.BR slice2swift (1)
