.TH slice2rb 1

.SH NAME

slice2rb - The Slice to Ruby compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2rb [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2rb compiles Slice files to Ruby. The macro __SLICE2RB__ is defined
during this compilation.

Full documentation for slice2rb is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.7/language-mappings/ruby-mapping/client-side-slice-to-ruby-mapping/code-generation-in-ruby

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays a help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
.br
Print dependency information to standard output by default, or to the
file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated when
this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-xml\fR
.br
Print dependency information in XML format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-file " " FILE\fR
.br
Directs dependency information to the specified file. The output
format depends on whether --depend or --depend-xml is also specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-all\fR
.br
Generate code for all Slice definitions, including those from included files.

.TP
.BR \-\-checksum " " CLASS\fR
.br
Generate checksums for Slice definitions.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2java (1),
.BR slice2js (1),
.BR slice2matlab (1),
.BR slice2objc (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1)
