.TH slice2py 1

.SH NAME

slice2py - The Slice to Python compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2py [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2py compiles Slice files to Python. The macro __SLICE2PY__
is defined during this compilation.

Full documentation for slice2py is available online at:
.br
https://docs.zeroc.com/ice/latest/python/using-the-slice-compilers

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays a help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
.br
Print dependency information to standard output by default, or to the
file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated when
this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-xml\fR
.br
Print dependency information in XML format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-file " " FILE\fR
.br
Directs dependency information to the specified file. The output
format depends on whether --depend or --depend-xml is also specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-build " " modules|index|all\fR
.br
Control which types of Python files are generated from the Slice definitions:
modules generates only the Python module files, index generates only the Python
package index files (__init__.py), and all generates both (the default).

.TP
.BR \-\-list\-generated " " modules|index|all\fR
.br
List the Python files that would be generated for the given Slice definitions,
without producing any output files: modules lists only the Python module files,
index lists only the Python package index files (__init__.py), and all lists
both. All paths are relative to the directory specified with --output-dir, and
each file is listed on a separate line.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2java (1),
.BR slice2js (1),
.BR slice2matlab (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2rb (1),
.BR slice2swift (1)
