.TH slice2js 1

.SH NAME

slice2js - The Slice to JavaScript compiler.

.SH SYNOPSIS

slice2js [options] [files]

.SH DESCRIPTION

slice2js compiles Slice files to JavaScript. The macro __SLICE2JS__
is defined during this compilation.

Full documentation for slice2js is available online at:
.br
https://doc.zeroc.com/ice/3.7/language-mappings/javascript-mapping/client-side-slice-to-javascript-mapping/slice2js-command-line-options

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help\fR
.br
Displays help message.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version\fR
Displays the compiler version.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-DNAME=DEF\fR
.br
Defines the preprocessor symbol NAME with the value DEF.

.TP
.BR \-UNAME\fR
.br
Undefines the preprocessor symbol NAME.

.TP
.BR \-IDIR\fR
.br
Add the directory DIR to the search path for #include directives.

.TP
.BR \-E\fR
.br
Print the preprocessor output on stdout.

.TP
.BR \-\-output-dir " " DIR\fR
.br
Place the generated files into directory DIR.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug\fR
.br
Print debug information showing the operation of the Slice parser.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\fR
.br
Print dependency information to standard output by default, or to the
file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated when
this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-xml\fR
.br
Print dependency information in XML format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-file " " FILE\fR
.br
Directs dependency information to the specified file. The output
format depends on whether --depend or --depend-xml is also specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-depend\-json\fR
.br
Print dependency information in JSON format to standard output by default,
or to the file specified by the --depend-file option. No code is generated
when this option is specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-validate\fR
.br
Checks the provided command-line options for correctness, and does not
generate any code.

.TP
.BR \-\-stdout\fR
.br
Print generated code to standard output.

.TP
.BR \-\-typescript\fR
.br
Generate TypeScript declaration files.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR slice2cpp (1),
.BR slice2cs (1),
.BR slice2java (1),
.BR slice2matlab (1),
.BR slice2objc (1),
.BR slice2php (1),
.BR slice2py (1),
.BR slice2rb (1),
.BR slice2swift(1)
